In this section we learned about working on the layout of a webpage.
First we looked at how we can responsively size each team out elements on our webpage to responsively
size images we can assign them percent based values for their width and height as opposed to hard coded
pixel values.
The max with max height properties are useful because they prevent us from scaling the images past their
original size.
We learned about viewport with units or the double use which we can use for our font size as opposed
to a hard coded pixel value.
This ensures that the text size on our Web page will be based on the size of the browser window.
After that we looked at how we can create menus and hetero bars for our web page by using a div as a
container for our web page links and then giving the div a fixed position top value of zero and with
of 100 percent.
We can ensure that our head or bottom menu is always at the top of our web page even when the user scrolls
down on the webpage.
Then we learned about bootstrap the latest version of bootstrap is bootstrapped for.
We learned that bootstrap is the most popular web development framework for developing web pages that
scale responsively and look good on mobile.
We also look at the lines we need to add to our HVM.
In order to gain access to the bootstrap framework and import it into our program next we learned about
how we can use bootstrap to position elements on our Web page bootstrap uses classes to give elements
certain functionality the container class lets us set up a container for grid the role class allows
us to define a role for our bootstrap grid.
We can add columns to our role using one of the five card class values that range from extra small devices
to extra large devices.
Bootstrap allows us to give our columns A with from 1 to 12 using the grid system we can easily lay
out columns at the waste we want them and we just need to make sure that each row adds up to a total
with 12 based on all the columns in that row.
Then we learned about how we can create menu items and UI and bootstrap to create a dropdown menu.
We use bootstraps dropdown class we can add a button that opens our dropdown menu by assigning it a
class of dropdown toggle and a data toggle value of dropdown to create the actual dropdown menu.
We use the dropdown menu class and give each item in the dropdown a class value of dropdown item.
We also learned how we can create a horizontal nav menu using bootstrap to create a nav menu.
We create an unordered list of links for our nav menu.
We use the nav nav item and NAV link classes to define the nav items and links for our menu to change
our menu from horizontal to vertical orientation.
We can add the flex column attribute to our opening unordered list.
Tag a nav bar is a menu of links placed at the top of a web page to create a nav bar.
We use the nav element and give it a class value of nav bar.
We give our unworded list a class value of nav bar nav.
We can also add a background to our nav bar.
We can easily add a dark background to our nav bar by assigning a class value of B.G. dark.
After that we learned how we can modify images using bootstrap we can position images to the left or
right of our Web page content using the float left and float right classes to give our image rounded
corners.
We can use the rounded class if we want to display our image with a round border like an ellipse or
circle.
We can use the rounded circle class if we give our image a class value of image thumbnail.
We can add a thumbnail border around it creating an image carousel is quick and easy using bootstraps
built in classes as they allow us to define the content and controls for our carrousel using a few HVM
Mal development.
After that we looked at how to modify text using bootstrap bootstrap gives us for display having classes
that allow us to create headings that stand out on a web page.
We can also easily stylize text using bootstrap bootstrap Lets as easily make text bold then or italic
using the font weight.
Bold font weight light and font.
Italic classes.
We can change the capitalization of text on our web page using the text uppercase text lowercase and
text capitalized classes.
Finally we learned about some other useful bootstrap classes.
We learned that we can easily add a background color to an HMO element using one of the predefined B.G.
classes bootstrap gives us access to.
Then we looked at how we can easily create and stylize buttons using bootstrap using the between classes
that bootstrap provides.
We learned how to draw attention to important content on our web page using the Jumbotron class.
Finally we learned about what a card is and bootstrap and how to use bootcamps card classes to our advantage
in the next lecture.
We will get hands on each team l practice building a website.